JAKE ARCHIBALD: I'm so tired.
PAUL LEWIS: Really?
Why are you so tired?
Well, I--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I wonder why.
Could it have been
the 11 hour flight?
Maybe.
Yeah, it could have been that.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
PAUL LEWIS: What are you doing?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I got
myself a Diet Coke.
And it was a wrong move.
I need to convert this.
I've got, like--
PAUL LEWIS: You've
got the jitters?
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
I've got flying--
PAUL LEWIS: Adding
sugar to the jitters
is not necessarily going to--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: This
is going to be OK.
Oh, you know, it's
actually really nice.
PAUL LEWIS: Anyway, we
should talk about the web.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
OK, so I was upset by something
that happened a few months ago.
Do you remember when--
PAUL LEWIS: Did it result
in an argument on Twitter?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: No, I
actually kept this to myself.
I just got sad inside of
myself, and I held it in.
And this is me now
letting it out.
PAUL LEWIS: You've
got to let it out.
Because it can bring other
problems in your life.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So Microsoft, with
the user voice thing
where they were
asking people, hey,
what do you want us to work on?
PAUL LEWIS: Yes, I do.
I liked that, by the way.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I think that
was brilliant, actually.
We should probably do that.
One of the things that
shot to the top of the list
was, stop doing what you're
doing and just use WebKit.
PAUL LEWIS: Boo.
No, that's not-- I don't think
that's the right outcome.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But
just the idea of them
stopping what they're
doing and taking
on another browsing engine,
that made me really sad.
Because I really think it's the
diversity of browsing engines
which makes the
internet a better place.
PAUL LEWIS: Well, we had this
when we fought to make Blink.
It wasn't about one code base.
One code base is
not what you want.
Because then you end
up with stagnation.
What you want is standards.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: But
I can understand
why developers might want,
like, a single browsing engine.
Because it can be
a pain sometimes,
especially when you
develop a thing,
your wonderful work of art
in a couple of browsers.
And then you go
to the third one,
and it's turned
it into some kind
of expressionist
modern art piece.
PAUL LEWIS: Yep I
can understand that.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: When I
was working at a startup,
I had a series of Post-it
notes on the wall,
one for each browser.
PAUL LEWIS: Of what?
Like things to
avoid or things to--
JAKE ARCHIBALD: No, no, no.
It was just Post-it note
Internet Explorer, Post-it note
Safari, Firefox, Opera.
PAUL LEWIS: Was it to remind
you to test in the browser?
Is that what it was?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: No, it was
I because I'd be coding--
PAUL LEWIS: Why did you have
the list of Post-it notes?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well, if you
would shut up for a moment,
I might be able to tell you.
PAUL LEWIS: I don't
like this jet lag, Jake.
We're not nice people
when we're jet lagged.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I had one
for each browser on the wall.
And then when my
wonderful work was
destroyed by a particular
browser, I would-- [GRUMBLING].
But rather than
getting really angry,
I would just calmly stand
up, pick up a Sharpie,
walk over to the
appropriate Post-it note,
and just draw a tiny phallus.
PAUL LEWIS: I really,
genuinely thought
it was going to be a
grown up little checkmark.
If you found out
that it was your bug,
did you apply the
appropriate diagram to self?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Just
to my own face, yeah.
PAUL LEWIS: Right.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Because
this was back in the day.
PAUL LEWIS: Back in the day,
and you've grown up since then.
You wouldn't do
that now, would you?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: No, I
still would do this.
But here's the difference.
Back then, the Internet
Explorer Post-it note was--
PAUL LEWIS: Did you
run out of space?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: It was riddled,
absolutely riddled, mate.
But I do think modern day
Internet Explorer has really
turned over a leaf.
So that's made me
really sad when
people were sort of really
wanting a browsing monoculture.
Because we did have it
with IE6 at the time.
PAUL LEWIS: Yeah, we did.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: And
it was actually awful.
Because the web stagnated.
We had a complete lack
of progress for years.
The diversity in
browsers, it actually
gives developers more power.
Because if you're in a
monoculture-- like say everyone
went WebKit.
Who gets to decide what
features get implemented?
PAUL LEWIS: Oh yeah, no,
this is the stagnation.
This is the monoculture
thing, right?
This is exactly.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah, it
will be WebKit that decides.
In the same way that
on native platforms,
like it's Android that decides
what features get developed.
And I'm feeling this with
Service Worker at the moment.
I know, right?
I know everything's
Service Worker with me.
PAUL LEWIS: Hello,
one trick pony.
How have you been?
It's only been half a
day since we last spoke.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
But at the moment,
it's in Chrome.
And it's going to
be in Firefox soon.
And Internet Explorer
looked like they were
going to take it on as well.
But Apple we don't know.
But it puts developers in
this position of power.
Because if they can make sites
work faster in Chrome, Firefox,
and eventually IE, then Apple
are going to look at that.
And they have to go, well,
we're not going to have this.
PAUL LEWIS: We're not going
to be the rubbishist in town.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right.
So we're going to have to
implement Service Worker.
And the people that made us do
that is real world developers.
PAUL LEWIS: It's brilliant.
More power to developers.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Yeah.
And that's what multiple
browser engines give us.
[MUSIC PLAYING]